Security 101: Cybersecurity Threat Landscape

Part I: Crowdstrike 2021 Global Threat Report

1.  What was the dominant ransomware family that impacted the healthcare industry in 2020?

Maze dominated the ransomware family in 2020 infecting the healthcare sector.

2.  Describe three different pandemic-related eCrime Phishing themes.

Exploiting individuals, preying on their fears and emotions is one phishing approach during the pandemic.   As they look for information online, they can lure them into clicking a hyperlink. 
They also impersonated medical entities like WHO and CDC.  As organizations such as these have authorities, they can bait individuals for instance, in the name of contract-tracing to give them their information.
Targeting employees working from home is another phishing manner where they can send them fraudulent emails with attachment to possibly steal their credentials and other Personal Identifiable Information.

3.  Which industry was targeted with the highest number of ransomware-associated data extortion operations?

Industrials & Engineering was targeted and has the highest number by data extortion related eCrimes with Manufacturing closely following behind. 

4.  What is WICKED PANDA? Where do they originate from?

Wicked Panda is the one who dominated among the China-based adversaries in exploiting different industries using different malwares.

5.  Which ransomware actor was the first observed using data extortion in a ransomware campaign?

Outlaw Spider

6.  What is an access broker? 

Access broker is one who has gained backdoor access in various organizations and sells their access to private forums and other encrypted channels.

7.  Explain a credential-based attack.

Credential-based attack is when attackers who have found a way around an organization’s security measures and have gained access to their credentials to steal their sensitive information.

8.  Who is credited for the heavy adoption of data extortion in ransomware campaigns?

Twisted Spider

9.  What is a DLS?

Dedicated Leaked Sites

10. According to Crowdstrike Falcon OverWatch, what percentage of intrusions came from eCrime intrusions in 2020? 

75%

11. Who was the most reported criminal adversary of 2020? 

Wizard Spider

12. Explain how SPRITE SPIDER and CARBON SPIDER impacted virtualization infrastructures.

Sprite Spider and Carbon Spider victimized organizations that used virtualization to host corporate systems in the middle of pandemic in 2020.  They released ransomware stealing Personal Identifiable Information and pressured uncooperating victims by leaking stolen data.

13. What role does an Enabler play in an eCrime ecosystem?

eCrime enablers offer a malware-as-a-service selling their ill-gotten access to eCrime adversaries to exploit the network of organizations.

14. What are the three parts of the eCrime ecosystem that CrowdStrike highlighted in their report?

Services, Distribution, Monetization
	
15. What is the name of the malicious code used to exploit a vulnerability in the SolarWinds Orion IT management software?

Sunburst


Part 2: Akamai Security Year in Review 2020

1.  What was the most vulnerable and targeted element of the gaming industry between October 2019 to September 2020? 

Players themselves

2.  From October 2019 to September 2020, which month did the financial services industry have the most daily web application attacks? 

December

3.  What percentage of phishing kits monitored by Akamai were active for only 20 days or less? 

60% of phishing kits were active for only 20 days or less per Akamai.

4.  What is credential stuffing? 

Credential stuffing is when the attacker uses an automated tool to gain unauthorized access to a large scale user accounts using stolen credentials such as username or email address and password.

5.  Approximately how many of the gaming industry players have experienced their accounts being compromised?  How many of them are worried about it?

Half of the gaming industry players have their accounts compromised and only one fifth are concerned about it.

6.  What is a three-question quiz phishing attack?

As the name denotes, this type of phishing scheme asks three questions related to the company or brand.  Irrespective of their answers the victim always “wins” and redirects them to a website to ask them about their personal information.

7.  Explain how Prolexic Routed defends organizations against DDoS attacks.

Prolexic Routed is created to stop DDoS attacks in the cloud wherein they redirect the network traffic to a designated scrubbing center to analyze and filter through it and remove malicious traffic before forwarding it to the user.

8.  What day between October 2019 to September 2020 had the highest Daily Logins associated with Daily Credential Abuse Attempts? 

August 17, 2020

9.  What day between October 2019 to September 2020 had the highest gaming attacks associated with Daily Web Application Attacks? 

July 11, 2020

10. What day between October 2019 to September 2020 had the highest media attacks associated with Daily Web Application Attacks?

August 20, 2019


Part 3: Verizon Data Breaches Investigation Report

1.  What is the difference between an incident and a breach? 

Incident is an event that compromises the elements of CIA triad (Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability).  While a breach is an infraction of a law pertaining to disclosure of data to an unauthorized third party.

2.  What percentage of breaches were perpetrated by outside actors? What percentage were perpetrated by internal actors? 

According to the Verizon Data Breaches Investigation report the breach perpetrated by external actors is 80% and by internal actors is 20% in 2020.

3.  What percentage of breaches were perpetrated by organized crime? 

Organized crime accounts for 55 percent of breaches.

4.  What percentage of breaches were financially motivated? 

78-100% of breaches were financially motivated.  According to the Verizon Data Breaches Investigation report categorize by:

Industries:
86-100% Accommodation and Food Services
100% Arts, Entertainment and Recreation
96% Education services
96% Financial and Insurance
91% Healthcare
88% Information
92% Manufacturing
78-100% Mining, Quarrying, Oil and Gas Extraction + Utilities
97% Professional, Scientific and Technical Services
96% Public Administration
99% Retail
93% Small and Medium Business 

Organizational Size:
87% Large Business

And lastly by Region:
96% Asia Pacific
89% Europe, Middle East and Africa
96% Northern America

5.  Define the following (Additional research may be required outside of the report): 

Denial of Service is a malicious intent to disrupt and deny access to the availability of a network.

Command and Control is a cyber attack wherein the attacker infects the system usually with malware to be able to use it under his power to extract data from or for other malicious activities.

Backdoor is a way of gaining access to a computer system bypassing the normal authentication procedure.

Keylogger is a spying device or software that logs the keyboard keystrokes to gain access to sensitive information.

6.  What remains one of the most sought-after data types for hackers? 

Credentials

7.  What was the percentage of breaches involving phishing?

67% of breaches involves phishing





