Assessing Security Culture
Step 1: Measure and Set Goals

1.  Using outside research, indicate the potential security risks of allowing employees to access work information on their personal devices. Identify at least three potential attacks that can be carried out.

Loss of unsecured device/Device Theft - Possibility of data theft
Malware - downloading malicious attachment then use the same device to log in the corporate network 
Unsecured wifi network - Data interception 

2.  Based on the above scenario, what is the preferred employee behavior?

Lock the device, do not leave the device unattended and use a strong password.
Employee education and installation of antivirus software. 
Use secure Wifi and VPN

3.  What methods would you use to measure how often employees are currently not behaving according to the preferred behavior?

The Security Department can initially launch a phishing test to unsuspecting employees to gather raw baseline data of how many employees are clicking and downloading attachments that pose a security risk.  Then send questionnaires regarding the employee behavioral aspect of cyber security and usage.

4.  What is the goal that you would like the organization to reach regarding this behavior?

After the initial data gathering from the questionnaires,  we can categorize the goals per security risk like ability or know how of accessing to VPN/secure network, user’s basic knowledge of securing the physical device, protection of credentials/accounts, how many people are aware and know how to install company approved antivirus software and number of people clicking questionable links from the phishing test.  Per each category, we can establish a short term goal of lowering the percentage value to 5% less than the original value every quarter.  And as a long term goal at the end of the year, the goal for each category should be 1% or less. 


Step 2: Involve the Right People

5.  Indicate at least three employees or departments that need to be involved. For each person or department, indicate in 2-3 sentences what their role and responsibilities will be.

Chief Information Officer (CIO) is responsible for managing the organization's software development.  He is in charge of developing and enforcing IT policies, procedures and best practices in the organization such as setting up corporate networks and use of VPN.

Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) is a senior-level executive responsible for developing and implementing an information and security program.  He also coordinates with the CIO to implement security policies and procedures.

Director of Network Security is responsible for protecting a computer network by troubleshooting, monitoring and detecting potential threats to promote digital security of the company. 


Step 3: Training Plan

I propose a quarterly education and a comprehensive security awareness training online and in person as applicable.  Training includes the importance of using a secured network and use of VPN, how data can be intercepted through insecure networks, possibility of network intrusion despite security in place, how data theft occurs and prevention, awareness of implications of a data breach for both the company and personal data, what and how vulnerability and susceptibility to malware attack.  Reminding employees regarding the importance of physically securing devices is important as digitally securing a device.  Importance of communication with the IT and Security Department for a timely reporting of stolen or lost devices for a quick response to incidents. Significance of instilling good habits in cyber security and benefits of being in control with complete awareness and diligence.  The training will also include mock phishing tests quarterly for employees to measure the output of the education and training done and serve as a basis of comparison from the initial data and employee compliance.  Incentivization for employee performance to provide motivation may include gift cards, free lunch, movie/concert tickets or reserved parking close to the entrance of the building and employee of the month recognition.  Disincentivization includes such as Employee Warning Notice, more education/training and possible write up after 3 warnings.  Have the employees sign and read that they are aware of company policy after the training.  
The data gathered from phishing tests, incident reports, number of people getting incentives and disincentives in a quarterly period can quantify and provide information for progress and areas of concern and focus.  We can send another set of questionnaires to explore further user vulnerability and provide feedback to better services and upgrade security measures.  Adjust and update education and training accordingly based on data gathered and new advances in technology or software for the next year for a dynamic security culture framework to stay fully informed and up-to-date.  Training and education will then be available to newly hired employees and a yearly compliance training will serve as a refresher for current employees with real work application and repetition for learning and memory retention to establish a habit of security culture inside and outside the organization.

Bonus: Other Solutions
Training alone often isn't the entire solution to a security concern.  Two other potential solutions:

Administrative - Bring your own device policies and password management policies is a preventive data control leakage.  It is cost effective and no learning curve needed for their employees but it is a high security risk and poses lack of privacy to the employees as the employers can review personal and company-related data in their personal device. 

Technical - includes encryption, identification and user authentication is both a deterrent and preventive control.   It adds a layer of security, prevents identity theft and makes it harder for a hacker to access sensitive company information but it can be expensive and can be time-consuming for users logging in. 
